applications: serial_lte_modem: second half implementation of PPP (#13453)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: applications/serial_lte_modem/doc/PPP_AT_commands.rst

.. _SLM_AT_PPP:

PPP AT commands
****************

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This page describes PPP-related AT commands.

Control PPP #XPPP
=================

Set command
-----------

The set command allows you to start and stop PPP.

Syntax
~~~~~~

::

   #XPPP=<op>

> * The ``<op>`` parameter can be the following:
>   * ``0`` - Stop PPP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The ``<op>`` parameter can be the following:

  * ``0`` - Stop PPP.
```
This is where the actual error is.

Author: Ah! Thanks.

>   * ``1`` - (Re)start PPP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * ``1`` - Start PPP.
```

    If PPP is already started, it is first stopped before being started again.

.. note::

   PPP is automatically started and stopped when the default PDN connection is established and lost, respectively.
   This happens even if PPP has previously been stopped or started with this command.

Read command
------------

The read command allows you to get the status of PPP.

Syntax
~~~~~~

::

   #XPPP?

Response syntax
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

::

   #XPPP: <running>,<peer_connected>

> * The ``<running>`` parameter tells whether PPP is running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The ``<running>`` parameter is an integer that indicates whether PPP is running.
```

>   It is ``1`` when PPP is running and ``0`` when PPP is stopped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It is ``1`` for running or ``0`` for stopped.
```

> * The ``<peer_connected>`` parameter tells whether a peer is connected to PPP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The ``<peer_connected>`` parameter is an integer that indicates whether a peer is connected to PPP.
```

>   It is ``1`` when a peer is connected and ``0`` when there is no peer connected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It is ``1`` for connected or ``0`` for not connected.
```

.. _SLM_AT_PPP:

> 

Reviewer 2: CGEREP special handling needs to be documented.

Author: Why do you think so? Everything is made so that the behavior is not changed for the end user and it's all invisible.

Reviewer 2: The events are not really stopped. Take for example the case where there is another processor for these events. This will be very hard to investigate if there is no mention of it. Same goes for the errors that are sent from the AT-command versions which you ignore. If there is no mention of special handling of these commands anywhere, it will be problematic to investigate.

Author: What potential other processor for these events are you thinking of?

Regarding the alternative AT command syntax, okay. My reasoning was that these should not be allowed because of how weird they are, but it's actually a deviation from the modem behavior. The code could be updated to accept those.

Reviewer 2: Anything that subscribes to AT_MONITOR(at_notify, ANY, notification_handler) (or specific events).

Rather than update the event, I think that it would be enough to document that we have special handling for AT+CGEREP and +CGEV, in which SLM intercepts and resends the commands.

Reviewer 2: I think that the command would be possible from modules other than SLM, not sure how likely that is. But you are correct that then we are on the developer side.

If you can get the error cases to work (or at least log indicative errors from them), then this will not necessarily need to be indicated in the documentation.

=================

Set command
-----------

The set command allows you to start and stop PPP.

Syntax
~~~~~~

::

   #XPPP=<op>

* The ``<op>`` parameter can be the following:

  * ``0`` - Stop PPP.
  * ``1`` - Start PPP.
    If PPP is already started, it is first stopped before being started again.

.. note::

   PPP is automatically started and stopped when the default PDN connection is established and lost, respectively.
   This happens even if PPP has previously been stopped or started with this command.

Read command
------------

The read command allows you to get the status of PPP.

Syntax
~~~~~~

::

   #XPPP?

Response syntax
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

::

   #XPPP: <running>,<peer_connected>

* The ``<running>`` parameter is an integer that indicates whether PPP is running.
  It is ``1`` for running or ``0`` for stopped.

* The ``<peer_connected>`` parameter is an integer that indicates whether a peer is connected to PPP.
  It is ``1`` for connected or ``0`` for not connected.

Test command
------------

The test command is not supported.

Example
-------

::

  AT+CFUN=1

  OK
  // Wait for network registration. PPP is automatically started.
  AT#XPPP?

  #XPPP: 1,0

  OK

>   // Connect to PPP. The read command shows that a peer is connected.

Author: From SLM's perspective yes, but from the user doing this not necessarily, e.g. here you would start `pppd`.

>   // Connect to PPP. The read command shows that a peer is connected.

Reviewer 2: Should this example then include the AT#PPP=1?

>   // Connect to PPP. The read command shows that a peer is connected.

Author: No. The start happens indeed automatically on the SLM side with the changes from this PR. PPP will get auto-started when the network registration happens, which in this example is between `AT+CFUN=1` and the first `AT#XPPP?`.

>   // Connect to PPP. The read command shows that a peer is connected.

Reviewer 2: OK, so it is as I first thought. "Connect to PPP." to me reads as an action that you would do. So that is why I thought that this was missing a command, with that phrasing.

>   // Connect to PPP. The read command shows that a peer is connected.

Author: I mean yes, that is what I was subtly trying to communicate. At that point you may want to start `pppd`, for example. But that may need to be made more explicit. How about something like below?
```suggestion
  // Have the peer connect to SLM's PPP. The read command shows that a peer is connected.
```

>   // Connect to PPP. The read command shows that a peer is connected.

Reviewer 2: Ah yes, forgot the starting of the pppd at this point and thus had problems in understanding this. This is definitively better.

Not on the scope for this, but should we document the pppd command as an example? It would aid in trying this out with Linux, but then there is the question of Windows usage...

>   // Connect to PPP. The read command shows that a peer is connected.

Author: Regarding additional documentation, yes definitely. This is planned.

>   // Have the peer connect to SLM's to PPP. The read command shows that a peer is connected.

Reviewer: SLM's what?

Author: Woops. SLM's ~~to~~ PPP.
